Hello and welcome back to the advanced course in our programming in one of the previous tutorials we
discussed missing a daughter and the options that you have to deal with it.
And here we've got a spreadsheet the actual data that we are working with is mapped out on what we're
going to do with these different missing elements of our data so sometimes our proxied with the media
and sometimes we're going to remove the whole row and we're just going to keep it as empty.
Sometimes we can predict 100 percent certainty.
And here again we're going to be proxying it with medians.
So now we're going to proceed to our and find out how to allocate all of this same data in our studio
.
Let's go ahead and start doing that.
All right.
So there is a very elegant way of doing it.
But before we move onto that let's have a look at our daughter's head first so let's look at the financial
data set.
As you can see there's lots and lots of columns here.
Let's for instance here we were looking at the top 29 rows we only need probably the top 24 to see all
the same things.
So let's go and look at the top 24 so we need a head of fin and we need 24.
So now if I make some space here this is exactly the same as we saw there.
What do we see.
Well we see some places they are and phase where we saw the red cell so those of us for a neuro there's
that one over there.
What else do we see there we've got this empty value here so it's not an A it's just empty.
So we'll just keep that in mind for now.
Then we've got some MTS over here as well were from the missing industry then we've got an AND A in
brackets so that's going to be interesting was it in brackets.
We'll talk about that.
And also employees here we've got another and they are so very interesting.
How do we now what we want to do is we want to single out all of these Razo we want to pull them out
of this data frame just the rows of missing data.
How do we do that.
How can we pull these rules out in a very quick and elegant way so that we see them all together separately
from the good Rose Well in our There's a great way to do it and we'll need a function called Complete
tort cases.
And here we're going to pass a function is your daughter a friend which is fine in our case and if we
run this what it'll return is a vector containing just true and false value.
So it's just telling you basically this is the first response the first true of the doorframe is a first
show complete.
Yes.
Is the second all complete.
Is a thorough complete false.
Go check.
That was a thorough not complete.
So there's our third row.
Something is missing see employees are missing here.
So is basically checking if there's an M.A. in any one of the columns in these associated rows.
As you can see here that's six seven eight in row eight.
Again we've got an issue.
So why do you do six seven eight.
And here we've got these names so you can see how it's working it's picking up all of the rows that
have at least one N.A. in them.
So that's good.
So we have to enforce vector.
How can we actually now see the subset of the doorframe.
Well we already know about subsetting how do we bring up the subset here.
Very simple we go thin.
Right and then nothing.
So complete cases of common nothing.
So this is a true false vector which will tell us which rose to pick out than common nothing.
This will pick out only the good rows so we're followed and as what we want is we want the opposite
so we want the negative of this.
So basically we want all the Trews to turn into full so all the forces turn into true.
So basically this exclamation mark complete that cases fin is all of the rows that do have an end and
they in them.
So if I just run this bit by itself you'll see that now it's turned into the opposite so this is true
.
This is true meaning that there is any in there.
And so if we subset our data set like that we will get all of the rows with and and they add them.
So what's the first thing that jumps to mind here.
Well the first thing that jumps to mind is that we only have six rows.
We have one two three four five six.
And if we go back to the spreadsheet here you can see that even in this view in the top 24 we already
have 7 we have 1 2 3 4 5 6 7.
And plus there is more along the way so there is more way more rows than 6 with missing data right.
How come we're only picking up 6.
Well the reason for that is exactly what we discussed that if we look at our values here you will see
that some of them are just not missing so they're not indicated as and and they they are just indicated
with empty characters and that is not the same as an AK.
And that's why our For instance thinks that this is a complete row that this value is supposed to be
just empty quotation marks and this is supposed to be all 70 quotation marks so it's not picking them
up as incomplete rows.
So how can we fix that.
Of course we can go through a data set and look for all these and correct them but then we'd have to
do quite a lot of work.
The best way to do this is to actually fix the problem at its core and to do that when we import the
data we would need to replace all of these empty strings or empty character values with an AA.
So that's what we're going to go to the very top where we imported the data and we'll say this was our
basic import.
So we'll just come in and out.
And now we're going to create a new import and we're going to say fin read Dadds GSV future.
Five hundred sixty three and then comma.
And here we need to specify and a dot strings.
So you're telling this function which is v what strings to replace or what characters replace with an
ace and say we're here we're going to pass a vector of values and in that picture we're only going to
just specify one value which is our empty quotation marks.
Basically here you could specify anything you could say.
New York for instance or any other values that you want are to treat as an ace or replace within.
Now I guess we just want all of the empty character strings to be authentic characters to be replaced
with an A.
So that's why we're going to go from here we're going to rerun all of this code.
Oh well let's rerun this.
But first right.
So if we look at the top of our data head all that just look at the top here.
That's let's me give it a bit more so let's say had 20.
So here now you'll see that in industry where we had we used to have just missing or just empty characters
.
Now we have an ace and same thing here right.
So now we just need to Iran everything from here let's just highlight all of this code all the way down
to where we are now.
And so if we were on that get a few seconds and now if we run our extract or subset Now you can see
that we're picking up way more rows and indeed here we're picking the one up with an ace for industry
.
And here we are picking up and a you can see that they were actually quite a lot of them with and ace
in the state column and all in all this is a much quicker approach than actually going through a daughter
.
Roberto because you can see that we even had an N.A. in the roll.
Three hundred seventy nine which is way down the track.
And as you can imagine it would have taken us a long time to pick it up.
So the last question we have for today is why are some of these rows.
Why do some of these names have brackets around them.
Why do some of them not have brackets.
Those is very simple.
It's basically just because of what's how are is treating these variables so if you look at the structure
of fin you'll see that the ones that are being picked up with the brackets are inception industry and
state and all of these are factors.
Industry inception and state factors and on the other hand a revenue expenses profit growth and employees
they don't have the brackets.
That is because they are not factors.
So as you can see these are not factors this is not a factor.
So essentially are is just telling us that here at the brackets are here just to help us visually see
that this is indeed an an a because imagine if you had a state like New York what if they're in Dallas
had we had a state with the abbreviation of an A right.
How would we distinguish earn a true and a real missing value from that type of state.
Right.
So that is why it is helping us out and saying OK you dealing with categories so just in case you have
a category in there that has abreviation and am I'm going to put these brackets here so that you can
see that this is indeed a missing value.
So there we go.
That's why the brackets are there and also most importantly That's our elegant way to pick out missing
rows with missing values.
So just use complete cases then negative of complete cases to flip this logic and then use that to subset
your data set.
And also don't forget something is actually going to take this line from here and I'm going to put it
here just so we remember that we updated import to this because that way we can also see which other
values have to be treated as an ace.
And it's actually up to you as the dart analyst of data scientists to understand which values should
indeed be treated as an ace in your data set.
And then you just put it in import and that way it is much easier to pick out these dollars as you could
see.
It's simply one line of code and we can pick out these rows very quickly.
Hope you enjoy this a Tauriel and I look forward to seeing you on the next one.
Until then happy coding
.